#summary a wish list of features that it would be nice to have
#labels Featured

= Introduction =

What would you like to see in Vim for Windows?


= Details =

== Win64 ==

 * Support for Ruby, TCL, MzScheme, etc interfaces. This requires the owners of these languages to produce 64-bit builds.

== Visuals ==

 * Bigger Vim icon that don't look like crap on Vista; i.e., 64x64 or better. See [http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~mtwebb/vim_icon/vim_icons.html OS X Vim Icon].
 * Better toolbar icons, such as the [http://tango.freedesktop.org/Tango_Icon_Library Tango ones] or the [http://www.famfamfam.com/lab/icons/silk/ Silk ones].

== Console Vim ==

 * Full support for Unicode and UTF-8.
 * Parity with xterm Vim.

== Misc ==

 * Shell/pty support. Look at [http://www.wana.at/vimshell/ VIM-Shell], [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1974 PyConsole], and [http://sourceforge.net/projects/console/ Console]
 * Visual Studio integration for VS 200x. VisVim only works for VS98 (VC6). Look at [http://code.google.com/p/vim-visual-studio/ Visual Studio] plugin.
 * Omni-completion for C# and other .NET languages. Steal intellisense stuff from [http://www.icsharpcode.net/OpenSource/SD/ SharpDevelop]? Look at [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1785 JavaComplete] too.
 * Full-screen mode like [http://code.google.com/p/macvim/ MacVim].
 * Incorporate [http://www.vim.org/scripts/script.php?script_id=1720 GVimExt_Tab] functionality, if it's not already.
 * Play well with [http://portablegvim.sourceforge.net/ Portable GVim].
 * Support proportional fonts, like GTK version.
 * Investigate [http://lwn.net/Articles/188693/ CMake]
 * Play nice with [http://www.nabble.com/VIM-and-NTFS-streams-to15203542.html NTFS streams].
 * Build new binaries that correctly handle new DST rules with [http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/vstudio/bb264729.aspx hotfix].

== Performance ==

This should be of general benefit to Vim on all platforms.

 * Painting speed of gvim. Noticeably slower than console Vim on old machines.
 * Get rid of the DOS box for shell commands.
 * Profile start-up times, both with `-u NONE` and with a non-trivial set of plugins.
 * Profile heavyweight operations. For example, [http://skawina.eu.org/mikolaj/vst.html VST] takes about 1 minute to regenerate its own documentation, running at 100% CPU. This case is probably a combination of inefficient script techniques, regexp inefficiencies, and inefficiencies in the core of Vim.

== Tools ==

Address issues with MiscTools.